# PLAN FOR THE WORST
## & get this done until next week is over!

Ideas:
- add time series of species diversity (both shannon and species richness) to general analysis

General Analysis:
- plot out boxplots time series (give general impression of temporal dynamics)
- statsmethod deseasonalisation for all time series data (!) -> Plot!
- Random Forest
- GAMLSS


reading notes:
if I do wanna give CCM a spin again I need to keep in mind:
For consistency, monthly time series were generated by averaging over observations if sampling occurred on a finer timescale. Although such compilation potentially causes some inconsistency in smoothing temporal fluctuations of time series data among systems with various sampling frequencies, it was necessary because our methods based on state-space reconstruction require time series data at equal intervals, dictating the temporal scale of analysis. In our case, the monthly resolution is the only consensus that can be applied to all time series datasets and the monthly average is the most representative measure at this scale. Nonetheless, causal strengths estimated by CCM analysis were robust to this data averaging according to our comparisons using eight stations where regular and frequent sampling (i.e., sampling frequency higher than monthly) were available (Supplementary Fig. S13). Overall, our data compilation yielded 5554 data points for each variable across the 19 sites (Supplementary Table S1). To ensure stationarity, we removed the long-term linear trend from each time series by using the residuals from a linear regression against time9. We accounted for seasonality by scaling against the mean and standard deviation of values occurring in the same month9, D-mv(ti) = (O(ti)-μmonth i)/σmonth i, where μmonth i is the monthly mean, σmonth i is the monthly standard deviation for each of 12 months, O(ti) is the original time series, and D-mv(ti) is the deseasonalized time series, i = 1, 2, …, 12. Finally, each time series was re-scaled to zero long-term mean and unit variance68.